README.md, before:

# Monolog Telegram Handler

Send your logs through Telegram bot to any chat and make them look fancy!

#### Features:
- [Continous logging](https://i.imgur.com/8EnxO90.jpg) and [batch logging](https://i.imgur.com/4C9Y6cT.jpg) support
- Standard stack traces wrapped in `<code></code>` tags
- Automatic splitting of the message when it exceeds maximum limit

## Prerequisites

 - Telegram Bot API token - [see here](https://core.telegram.org/bots#creating-a-new-bot) to learn how to obtain one
 - ID of the chat to which you want to send the logs - see below

#### Obtaining chat ID

One of the simplest ways to do that is to interact with the bot in the target chat:
- private and group chats - send any dummy command
- channels - post something in it

After interacting visit `https://api.telegram.org/botTOKEN/getUpdates` (replace `TOKEN` with your actual bot token), you will be able to find the chat id (`chat_id`) in the result JSON.

## Installation

Install with [Composer](https://github.com/composer/composer):

```bash
$ composer require jacklul/monolog-telegram
```

## Usage

To use this handler you just have to add it like every other **Monolog** handler:

```php
require 'vendor/autoload.php';

$logger = new Logger('My project');
$handler = new TelegramHandler(
    '123456789:teMbvbETojnSG93jDhnynvH8pT28H9TIB1h',  // Bot API token
    987654321,  // Target Chat ID
    Logger::ERROR,  // Log level, default: DEBUG
    true,  // Bubble up the stack or not, default: true
    true,  // Use cURL or not? default: true = use when available
    10,    // Timeout for API requests, default: 10
    true   // Verify SSL certificate or not? default: true, false only useful for development - avoid in production
);

$handler->setFormatter(new TelegramFormatter());    // Usage of this formatter is optional but recommended if you want better message layout
$logger->pushHandler($handler);

$logger->error('Error!');
```

To prevent spamming the chat and hitting Telegram's API limits it is advised to use
 [DeduplicationHandler](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog/blob/master/src/Monolog/Handler/DeduplicationHandler.php) and/or [BufferHandler](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog/blob/master/src/Monolog/Handler/BufferHandler.php), ideal solution for production use would be:

```php
$handler = new TelegramHandler('TOKEN', 123456789);
$handler->setFormatter(new TelegramFormatter());

// Combine all log entries into one and force batch processing
$handler = new BufferHandler($handler);

// Make sure that particular log stack wasn't sent before
$handler = new DeduplicationHandler($handler);

// Keep collecting logs until ERROR occurs, after that send collected logs to $handler
$handler = new FingersCrossedHandler($handler, new ErrorLevelActivationStrategy(Logger::ERROR));

$logger->pushHandler($handler);
```

You can customize the formatter:

```php
$html = true;    // Choose whether to send the message in HTMl format
$format = "%emoji% <b>%level_name%</b> (%channel%) [%date%]\n\n%message%\n\n%context%%extra%";   // EMOJI ERROR (My project) [2018-05-01 15:55:15 UTC]
$date_format = 'Y-m-d H:i:s e';       // 2018-05-01 15:55:15 UTC, format must be supported by DateTime::format
$separator = '-';       // Seperation character for batch processing - when empty one empty line is used
$emojis = [         // Override any level emoji
    'NOTICE' => '🤖'
];

$handler->setFormatter(new TelegramFormatter($html, $format, $date_format, $separator, $emojis));
```

## Running tests

Create `.env` file:
```
TELEGRAM_TOKEN=BOT_TOKEN
TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID=CHAT_ID_THE_BOT_WILL_SPAM;
```

Run `composer check-code` and `composer test`.

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add support for Topics (Thread ID)

README.md, after:

# Monolog Telegram Handler

Send your logs through Telegram bot to any chat and make them look fancy!

#### Features:
- [Continous logging](https://i.imgur.com/8EnxO90.jpg) and [batch logging](https://i.imgur.com/4C9Y6cT.jpg) support
- Standard stack traces wrapped in `<code></code>` tags
- Automatic splitting of the message when it exceeds maximum limit

## Prerequisites

 - Telegram Bot API token - [see here](https://core.telegram.org/bots#creating-a-new-bot) to learn how to obtain one
 - ID of the chat to which you want to send the logs - see below

#### Obtaining chat ID

One of the simplest ways to do that is to interact with the bot in the target chat:
- private and group chats - send any dummy command
- channels - post something in it

After interacting visit `https://api.telegram.org/botTOKEN/getUpdates` (replace `TOKEN` with your actual bot token), you will be able to find the chat id (`chat_id`) in the result JSON.

## Installation

Install with [Composer](https://github.com/composer/composer):

```bash
$ composer require jacklul/monolog-telegram
```

## Usage

To use this handler you just have to add it like every other **Monolog** handler:

```php
require 'vendor/autoload.php';

$logger = new Logger('My project');
$handler = new TelegramHandler(
    '123456789:teMbvbETojnSG93jDhnynvH8pT28H9TIB1h',  // Bot API token
    987654321,  // Target Chat ID
    Logger::ERROR,  // Log level, default: DEBUG
    true,  // Bubble up the stack or not, default: true
    true,  // Use cURL or not? default: true = use when available
    10,    // Timeout for API requests, default: 10
    true   // Verify SSL certificate or not? default: true, false only useful for development - avoid in production,
    2, // (optional) Target Topic ID (thread ID) for group chats
);

$handler->setFormatter(new TelegramFormatter());    // Usage of this formatter is optional but recommended if you want better message layout
$logger->pushHandler($handler);

$logger->error('Error!');
```

To prevent spamming the chat and hitting Telegram's API limits it is advised to use
 [DeduplicationHandler](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog/blob/master/src/Monolog/Handler/DeduplicationHandler.php) and/or [BufferHandler](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog/blob/master/src/Monolog/Handler/BufferHandler.php), ideal solution for production use would be:

```php
$handler = new TelegramHandler('TOKEN', 123456789);
$handler->setFormatter(new TelegramFormatter());

// Combine all log entries into one and force batch processing
$handler = new BufferHandler($handler);

// Make sure that particular log stack wasn't sent before
$handler = new DeduplicationHandler($handler);

// Keep collecting logs until ERROR occurs, after that send collected logs to $handler
$handler = new FingersCrossedHandler($handler, new ErrorLevelActivationStrategy(Logger::ERROR));

$logger->pushHandler($handler);
```

You can customize the formatter:

```php
$html = true;    // Choose whether to send the message in HTMl format
$format = "%emoji% <b>%level_name%</b> (%channel%) [%date%]\n\n%message%\n\n%context%%extra%";   // EMOJI ERROR (My project) [2018-05-01 15:55:15 UTC]
$date_format = 'Y-m-d H:i:s e';       // 2018-05-01 15:55:15 UTC, format must be supported by DateTime::format
$separator = '-';       // Seperation character for batch processing - when empty one empty line is used
$emojis = [         // Override any level emoji
    'NOTICE' => '🤖'
];

$handler->setFormatter(new TelegramFormatter($html, $format, $date_format, $separator, $emojis));
```

## Running tests

Create `.env` file:
```
TELEGRAM_TOKEN=BOT_TOKEN
TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID=CHAT_ID_THE_BOT_WILL_SPAM;
```

Run `composer check-code` and `composer test`.

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE).
